chore: move production environment into its own page (#314)
openfga/openfga.dev: docs/content/getting-started/production-environment.mdx

---

> title: Production Best Practices

Reviewer: Do you want to rename this file to match this title as well?

Author: Done

description: Best Practices of Running OpenFGA in a Production Environment
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /getting-started/running-in-production
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  RelatedSection,
} from "@components/Docs";

# Running OpenFGA in Production

<DocumentationNotice />

The following list outlines some guidelines and best-practices for running OpenFGA in a production environment:

- [Configure Authentication](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-authentication)
- Enable HTTP TLS or gRPC TLS or both
- Configure JSON as the log.format
- [Disable the Playground](./setup-openfga.mdx#playground).

## Database Recommendations

To ensure good performance for OpenFGA, it is recommended that the [database](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-data-storage) be:
- Used exclusively for OpenFGA and not shared with other applications. This allows scaling the OpenFGA database independently and avoiding contention with your application database. 

> - Bootstrapped and managed with the openfga migrate tool. This will ensure the appropriate indexes are created for any specific version of OpenFGA.

Reviewer: `openfga migrate` reads a little better since it pops out and makes it more clear we're referring to a tool.

Author: Actually, I will like to link this to https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga#configuring-data-storage to remind the readers how to run the migration.

Author: Done

---
title: Running OpenFGA in Production
description: Running OpenFGA in a Production Environment
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /getting-started/running-in-production
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  RelatedSection,
} from "@components/Docs";

# Running OpenFGA in Production

<DocumentationNotice />

> ## Preparation

Reviewer: I would remove this and just have a top-level paragraph that says something like

The following list outlines some guidelines and best-practices for running OpenFGA in a production environment:

* [Configure Authentication](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-authentication)
* Enable HTTP TLS or gRPC TLS or both
* Configure JSON as the `log.format`
* [Disable the Playground](./setup-openfga.mdx#playground)

Note: We need to add info regarding TLS for the HTTP and gRPC servers. We support TLS, but we don't have it documented in the Setup page yet. Ideally the TLS bullet point above would have links to those sections.

If you have tried OpenFGA locally, decided it works as expected, and now want to deploy it to production, we recommend the following preparation:

- Update the configuration as follows:
  - [Configure authentication](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-authentication) on the server.
  - Enable TLS on the server.
  - Enable production logging by changing the `log.format` in the [config.yaml](#configuring-the-server) configuration file to `json`.
  - [Disable Playground](./setup-openfga.mdx#playground).

> - Add a rate limiter interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that protects your OpenFGA server against bursts in traffic.

Reviewer: This isn't really possible when running OpenFGA as a standalone server. We don't yet have a pluggable middleware mechanism that would allow developers to run OpenFGA in standalone mode with custom middleware plugins (such as rate limiting middleware).

Author: In this case, should we remove this (and the next) line?  What is our recommendation to the user?

Reviewer 2: They can have a loadbalancer in front of it. The fact that it is standalone doesn't mean it has to be exposed to the public

Reviewer: The recommendation points at config for the server that is non-configurable if running OpenFGA as a standalone server (not as an integrated server in some other binary).

If we're going to mention this then at minimum I recommend we change the verbiage to say something more like

> Enforce rate limits with upstream infrastructure (e.g. at your load-balancer or proxy layer)

Though this level of detail in an OpenFGA Production Checklist seems outside of the scope of this documentation. IMO our Production Checklist recommendations should include configurations specific to OpenFGA, not infrastructure elsewhere.

Author: In this case, let's rip these two lines out so that the document focuses on OpenFGA in a production system (not recommendation on how to setup production infrastructure in general).

Reviewer 2: > our Production Checklist recommendations should include configurations specific to OpenFGA, not infrastructure elsewhere.

It is our responsibility to help people understand that they should not expose OpenFGA to the public without taking further action to secure their ecosystem.

Reviewer: > In this case, let's rip these two lines out so that the document focuses on OpenFGA in a production system (not recommendation on how to setup production infrastructure in general).
👍 I agree. It's not our responsibility to try and give infrastructural guidelines for infrastructure we don't own. It is our responsibility to tell them how to configure OpenFGA to be secure and performant. If they want to put rate limiting in front of OpenFGA then that's up to them.

Author: Done

> - Add a logger interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that sends logs to your logging platform of choice.

Reviewer: Same comment as above. This isn't really possible when running OpenFGA as a standalone server.

We don't yet have a pluggable middleware mechanism for this kind of stuff.

> ## Database Performance Implication

Reviewer: Database Recommendations

To ensure good performance for OpenFGA, it is recommended that the [database](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-data-storage) be:

> - Used exclusively for OpenFGA and not share with other applications. This allows scaling the OpenFGA database separately and independently.  

Reviewer: not shared

missing the letter 'd' at the end of 'share'

> - Indexing to improve performance, especially for check

Reviewer: I would just say

> Bootstrapped and managed with the `openfga migrate` tool. This will ensure the appropriate indexes are created.

---
title: Production Environment
description: Running OpenFGA in Production Environment
sidebar_position: 8

> slug: /getting-started/production-environment

Author: At the same time, I don't think it is enough for it to be a top level document.

  - Enable TLS on the server.
  - Enable production logging by changing the `log.format` in the [config.yaml](#configuring-the-server) configuration file to `json`.
  - [Disable Playground](./setup-openfga.mdx#playground).
- Add a rate limiter interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that protects your OpenFGA server against bursts in traffic.
- Add a logger interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that sends logs to your logging platform of choice.

## Database Performance Implication

To ensure good performance for OpenFGA, it is recommended that the [database](./setup-openfga.mdx#configuring-data-storage) be:
- Used exclusively for OpenFGA and not share with other applications. This allows scaling the OpenFGA database separately and independently.  
- Indexing to improve performance, especially for check

## Tuples Operation with Authorization Model ID

To ensure reliability while new models are developed, it is <strong>strongly recommended</strong> that 

> - [Check](./perform-check.mdx), [write](./update-tuples.mdx), [expand](../interacting/relationship-queries.mdx#expand) and [list object](../interacting/relationship-queries.mdx#listobjects) be performed against a validated model by specifying the authorization model id 

Reviewer 3: Should we clarify that we're asking the user to specify the model ID in a particular place (from the CLI, in API calls, or application code for example) because up until this point in the document the framing context has been the OpenFGA server configuration?

Author: Do you mean where they store the model ID (i.e., constant/environment variable etc.) or how they get the authorization model id (and point them to https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/configure-model#step-by-step)?

Author: As discussed offline, we can remove this section for now and later add into a separate document regarding running fga client in a production environment.

Author: removed

> - At the same time, updates may be performed on the model and testing may be the new model.

Reviewer 3: Not sure this makes sense. 🤔 Are we missing 'performed' between the second `may` and `be`?

Author: removed

- Once you are satisfied with the new model, you may switch to the new model either via blue-green deployment or via canary by switching a small percentage of check, write, expand and list objects with the new authorization model id.  

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to run OpenFGA in production environment."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Setup OpenFGA',

>       description: 'Learn how to setup the OpenFGA Server.',

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      description: 'Learn how to setup the OpenFGA Server',
```
